Hi Conor -- feedback on the skeleton document.

Overall, this is excellent. Plenty of detail and insight. It's clear
you've already made a lot of progress. Some parts will need a little
cleaning up but that is no problem at this stage. I'll note a few
small comments below, for discussion after the exams.

Grade: A.


"the exploration of causal research" -> causality research

"It has been demonstrated to be quite reliable in a variety of
contexts and countries." -> probably should be quoted inline rather
than a block quote

"Figure 2.1: Correlation between corporate environmental protection
spending and economic success." -- put the image source in the
caption.

”the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society” --
here and elsewhere, you need to use latex-style quotes, that is double
backticks (``) followed by double apostrophes ('').

"For example, the study of Moldovan and Mutu (2015) on which the
current study is based, makes strong claims as to the relationship
between corporate governance and company success." -- here, I would
quote something from their conclusions where they suggest that firms
could improve their Z score if they made some specific change.

"It is said that if all variables that could possibly be causal are
considered, causation can be reliably inferred." -- I don't quite get
this comment and "it is said" needs to be backed up.

"Researchers can then estimate the presence and magnitude of the
effect the treatment has on particular outcomes." -- I would add a
sentence here to make it crystal-clear: any observed relationship can
then be inferred to be causal since the treatment variable was under
researcher control.

"A way to address this is to categorise continuous features, a
practice used in calculating the Mahalanobis distance for example
which works well with low dimensionality, but poorly with highly
non-uniformly distributed features." -- I'm not familiar with this --
I think of Mahalanobis as working on continuous features -- so just
flagging it for future discussion. (Or maybe you have a cite.)

I suggest a find-replace on your .tex for "casual" -> "causal" ;-)

How does the DAG model of Pearl hold up when we think about variables
which are in a circular i.e. feedback relationship, e.g. sales go up
-> more money available to spend on advertising -> causes sales to go
up? Pearl has talked a bit about this. I think you don't need to go
into it, but suggest add a few sentences saying that it is possible,
but more complicated, and not necessary for our project.


More broadly, I think there is another approach which is analogous to
Matching, that is a before-and-after matching on the *same* data
point. Eg if you could get the Altman Z for each company before and
after each change to its governance (how far before and after?
difficult question) you would in a sense have a matched dataset.
Again, just something to mention. Might not be needed for us.

Attached algorithm to make this happen - see forked project at https://github.com/ReidConor/causality

Great find. Nice that it uses NetworkX too!
